Task 1: Identifying Digital Evidence
You are given a crime scene shows as in picture. You need to:
1. Create your own crime scene similar as shown in picture.
2. Follow the standard guideline in processing the crime scene (choose any SOP as your reference)
3. Secure the crime scene (Show how you want to secure the scene, i.e. draw/use any tape that suitable to demo how secure the perimeter)
4. Identify the evidence you can collect to help the investigation process (hint: list potential evidence)
a. Look for information related to the investigation
b. Passwords, passphrases, PINs, bank accounts
c. Collect documentation and media related to the investigation, Hardware, software, backup media, documentation, manuals
5. Photograph the crime scene

Task 2: Collecting and Preserving Digital Evidence
Once the crime scene has been secured, collect and secure the evidence that have been identified.
For this task, to proceed for the practical, you need to use any bag for packaging (hint: you can use clear plastic bag from your home kitchen) and sticker for labelling the evidence (hint: you can use sticker notes for this lab practice).
1. Tag all evidence that has been collected with the current date and time, serial numbers or unique features, make and model, and the name of the person who collected it
2. Maintain two separate logs of collected evidence.
3. Maintain constant control of the collected evidence and the crime or incident scene



Guys, I post you the task 3 and 4 to complete the lab.
Task 3: Gathering and Securing Digital Evidence
Securely gather and store the source of evidence found. For this task, you need to provide a container (hint: for the practical demo, you can use any plastic container from your kitchen) and print a chain of custody form.

1. Place the evidence in a secure container and fill in the evidence custody form
2. Keep a journal/diary to document all the activities

Task 4: Documenting and Reporting
Once complete processing the crime scene, write a short report on the activity you have done and present the finding.
Actually, all must be done during you do the process.




Aiman was working in a library using his laptop when he took a bathroom break. When he came back to his
workstation, he finds that his laptop has been unlocked and his browser is now opening his email account.
An unknown pendrive was found next to his laptop. He finds that someone has been using his email to send
unknown files to his contacts.




Self-Review Questions
1. What is the importance information should be collected in the evidence custody form?
2. Why an anti-electromagnetic bag is used in securing a hard disk?
3. Once the evidence is stored in a safe box, what are the safety precaution an investigator must do to make sure the evidence is securely transferred to the investigation Lab?